The Library of Babel is real. Not as a physical place, but as a mathematical
truth. You can express it as a single line:

```sh
tr -dc \ ,.a-pr-vy</dev/urandom|fold -80|sed 0~40G\;16400q
```

Click here to run some equivalent code and you'll get an actual book from
the library. It probably won't have anything interesting, but it's entirely
possible that you'll find your life story, or the book you've always wished
that you wrote.

People do things equivalent to searching the library every day. At its core,
most forms of divination are ways to search the library, as are many forms of
art. When a person flips the tarot cards or tosses the yarrow for the
I Ching, they're trying to find their story in one of the library's books.
When a sculptor looks for a true shape within a piece of driftwood, that's
searching the library. Sometimes they manage to find something interesting
or even life-changing in the chaos. Usually they don't.

AI's most interesting artistic role is in accelerating the search. Curating
randomness to find accidental meaning is a real art form, but the rate of
return is terribly low. Generative AI tools serve to tether that randomness,
linking it to patterns found in existing art just tightly enough to exclude
most of the meaningless noise. It's a rough index into the Library, letting
us limit the search to a much more rewarding subset of the near-infinite
space.

AI doesn't take away the human work. It's still the same search it always
was; the standards can just be raised now. For this project I discarded at
least twenty rooms and stories for every one that I kept, and many of the
remaining rooms and stories had major flaws I needed to individually fix.
It's still the same process I'd follow through automatic drawing, where I'd
join meaningless scribbled lines to form intricate cityscapes. This
accelerates that search to give me results I'd only dreamed of before.

There's still a lot of room left for curation here, even after all the time I
spent. I'd love to see which of these shelves are most interesting to you.
Search for concepts that intrigue you, mark the best with a ★, and join me
in the search.

---
Interactivity notes:
- "Library of Babel" in the first line should link https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Library_of_Babel
- "Click here to run some equivalent code" should open BabelBookOverlay.tsx
