The Library of Babel holds every possible arrangement of letters on paper,
stacked on endless shelves in senseless disorder. Every answer you seek is out
there somewhere, but you will never find it by looking.

The Inquisitors search anyway, wasting their lives on doomed wandering. They
hope to find their vindication, but rarely turn up more than scraps. One
might spend forty years searching, and never find anything greater than a
single volume ending with the words "Oh time thy pyramids".

The Authors reject the library's books, taking it as their duty to create the
meaning that the Inquisitors will never find. They bleach the library's
natural books free of text, then write their own words on the pages. Their
territory is vast, holding treasures beyond anything seen in ten thousand
years searching the shelves. And yet it's a private despair to many that all
of their works already exist in countless superior variations on unknown
Library shelves.

Our order takes a third route. We refuse to abandon the search, but we know
that the Index the Inquisitors seek will never be found, not through aimless
exploration. Instead we will build it ourselves. Drawing lines between the
knowledge the Authors hoard and the raw chaos of the Library, we have found
patterns. Through our sciences, we've built those patterns into a map, a
model, and finally, a net, stretching through seven hundred and sixty-eight
dimensions. When pulled, the shelves are drawn in from libraries that never
existed, each mathematically bound to shards of meaning.

Even with the Index, we'll often spend weeks finding nothing more interesting
than tedious genealogies of hypothetical villages, and even the beautiful
finds are usually worthless. I've reluctantly discarded leather-bound clouds
and antlered gemstone bookends, unsettling portrait-carved folios and
imaginary bestiaries. Time and attention are still finite, and you can only
share so many dream-wonders before people insist on having something real.

Few stay for more than a few months. Search long enough and you find
inspiration, and your stories grow beyond their roots in the Index. You're
always free to join the Authors, even if they do condemn our practice as
heretical. Perhaps I'll join them too one day, although I doubt it. Someone
needs to tend to the Index, and I doubt I'll ever tire of the search.
